GRAPHVIS uses its own filetype to describe graph structures: .graph files. These files consist of a few different sections, each one used to describe a different aspect of the graph in question. Each line ends with a newline; no other special character is needed to delimit the end of a line.


DESCRIPTORS:
.graph files use descriptor lines to specify specific values about the graph they describe. Each one starts with a tilde (~), followed by a letter/character acting as the descriptor's key, followed by a colon. Any characters following the colon will be used as the value for the given key.


BOUNDING (~b):
The following line activates a bounding box on the window, preventing nodes from leaving the screen:

~b:True

Setting this value to False will deactivate the bounding box.


NODES (~n):
The following line specifies that there are 5 nodes in the graph:

~n:5

Of course, the number 5 will change to match the correct number of nodes in the specific graph the file represents.


LABELS (~l):
The following lines specify a few node labels for a graph (names for the nodes, essentially):

~l:above
0:a
1:cool
3:name

The "~l" says that the following lines describe node labels. GRAPHVIS knows to stop recording labels when another descriptor appears in the file, or the file ends. The key after the colon represents the type of labels to use.
 - "above" sets node labels above circular nodes
 - "body" sets node labels as the nodes themselves (essentially, the node circle is invisible)
 - "none" flat-out disables labels, leaving only the circular nodes and their connections.

The lines following "~l" specify the labels to be used. The number before the colon specifies the number of the node to add the label to. After the colon specifies the label itself. In general, these lines will look like:

<node number>:<label>

These lines do not need to be in any particular order. However, labels should appear after the number of nodes is specified with "~n".


CONNECTIONS (~c):
The following line specifies a few connections for a graph:

~c:direction
0,3
0,2
1,3

The "~c" says that the following lines describe node connections. GRAPHVIS knows to stop recording connections when another descriptor appears in the file, or the file ends.

The key after "~c:" specifies what type of connections to use. Currently, this value can be either "direction" or "free". "direction" says to add arrowheads to the edges, while "free" leaves the edges without arrowheads. If no characters follow "~c", then "free" is assumed.
 
The lines following "~c" specify pairs of nodes to connect together with an edge. The connections are specified by node number, like labels. For each line, the pair of nodes is separated by a comma.

Connections should be specified after the number of nodes is specified with "~n".


An example .graph file and an image of the resulting graph will eventually be included with this documentation.